= Axon

http://github.com/ender672/axon

== DESCRIPTION:

Axon is a library for streaming and manipulating JPEG and PNG images. It scales
and crops images along the way.

By limiting its functionality, Axon is able to depend on two ubiquitous
libraries: libjpeg and libpng. Axon can be installed anywhere those libraries
are available.

Axon never stores an entire image in memory. All images and operations are
streamed from an input to an output. As a result, memory requirements and
latency are low.

== FEATURES:

* Read and Write JPEG and PNG images.
* Scale images using bilinear (fast!) or nearest-neighbor (even faster!)
  interpolation.
* Crop images.

== SYNOPSIS:

  # Short, chained example. Reads a JPEG from io_in and writes scaled png to
  # io_out.
  Axon.JPEG(io_in).fit(100, 100).write_png(io_out)

  # Longer example, reads the JPEG header, looks at properties and header
  # values, sets decompression options, scales the image, sets compression
  # options, and writes a JPEG.
  image = Axon.JPEG(io, [:APP2])

  puts image.width
  puts image.height
  puts image[:APP2]
  image.scale_denom = 4

  jpeg = image.fit(100, 100).to_jpeg
  jpeg.quality = 88
  jpeg.write(io)

== BASIC API:

There are three basic object types: Image, Reader and Writer.

Every Image object has the following methods:

  * Image#height, Image#width
    These are the output dimensions of the image.
  * Image#color_model
    Can be :GRAYSCALE or :RGB
  * Image#components
    An RGB image will have 3 components. A grayscale image with an alpha channel
    (transparency) will have 2 components: grayscale and transparency, etc.
  * Image#each(&block)
    Yields every line in the image as a binary ruby string. Image properties
    are not allowed to change between the first and last yield.

A Reader object has the same methods as an Image object, with added methods that
are specific to the decoding of the image format.

A Writer has two methods:

  * Writer#write(io[, options])
  * Writer#data([options]) # returns image data as a string

== REQUIREMENTS:

IJG JPEG Library Version 6b or later.
pnglib version 1.2.x or later.

== INSTALL:

gem install axon

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2011

* {Timothy Elliott}[http://holymonkey.com]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
